Hey, so in this video we're going to learn
about something called refactoring, which is super handy. It saves us from
repeating ourselves and allows us to make widespread changes
in one place. So, we're going to start small, we're going to start simple, but
by the end of the video, you'll know how to refactor your code and to create your own
custom functions, which goes hand in hand with that.
OK, so here's what I'm going to do. I don't want to call all of this stuff
in Start. I'm just kind of diving straight in, with a load of code! I want
to take this code and put it into a separate function, for neatness,
and for the sake of this exercise. So, I'm going to make a new function. I do that
at this level of indentation, the same as all of the other function definitions.
I could do it straight after Start and in between
Start and Update. You'd normally leave Start and Update together,
but I'm going to do it straight after Start, in this case. So, void
StartGame. Why void? Because we're returning nothing Nothing is
coming out of this function and nothing is going in either, actually.
So, that's it! I do the curly braces and
put my return in and then do my Tab.
Perfect! OK, so what I'm going to do is simply move all the code from the
Start function, all of it into StartGame.
Alright, if I was to save that and run it, absolutely nothing would
happen, because nothing is calling StartGame. Let me show you what
happens, by what I mean by nothing. We run, we look at
the Console, nothing comes on the Console whatsoever. Not very
helpful! Of course, the up and down arrows should still work, provided you're clicked
in game, but nothing will happen initially. None of the
instructions or welcome message come up. OK,
and the reason for that is, nothing is calling StartGame.
I need a t in there. OK, and to call StartGame we simply say
StartGame(), and actually Unity will help you do it,
provided you remember that you need to put your brackets, because
the function signature is that we pass in nothing.
And because we're getting nothing back out from it, we don't have to assign
it to anything, that's it! We just say StartGame(); and then it will go, OK
I'm going to jump into StartGame(); and do everything it says there! [Laughs] Alright,
so that's it! That's real simple! Alright, now
I have another challenge for you. Right underneath this, let's create a new function called
NextGuess. The same signature, it takes nothing in and returns
nothing, but it's called NextGuess, with the same pattern
of capitalization. Go ahead and try and do that now!
OK, here we go! void
NextGuess () boing splotch!
Boing doing doong! Perfect!
Alright, that was relatively simple! OK, so what I'm
going to move into NextGuess() is the two lines that are repeated,
inside this Update function. This pair of lines,
the guess = (max + min) / 2; and the print bit,
are both repeated, so let's
take them both, put them into NextGuess().
We can actually just delete them, from the second one, and of
course, we're leaving a gaping hole and that gaping hole is, it needs to say
NextGuess right,
same as before. So,
we just do that! Fantastic! So now, in both of those cases we
just call NextGuess () and jump up here to NextGuess (). It can be defined above
or below, which is fine. If you want to move NextGuess (), then just grab it
and stick it down here, below Update. I would prefer it was below
Update really, because it makes kind of sense to have the Start and the Update
together, at the top. Great! Now, we're going to do one final thing,
which is going to show the power of
refactoring. I would like, when we have
made our guess, for the computer to tell us the instructions
every time, all over again like this. They're going to
say, after the guess has been made, it's going to say... Well, it's actually
going to say exactly the same stuff here. I'll just copy this line,
from the Start, and put it into the NextGuess ().
So, every time it's made the guess, it's going to repeat this line, both
whether you push the Up Key or the Down Key. So, we've made a change in
two places, from one place, if you like. Let's take a look at this working!
OK, so I think of,
I don't know, 5, 6, 7? So, is it higher or lower than 500? Higher!
Let me just turn Collapse off, it'll be clearer.
Click into game. OK, so it's lower than
750. OK, you get the idea. We get to
5, 6, 7, in a minute,
and there it is, and now I can say =. "I
won!" Perfect! But notice, it gives me the instructions at every single
line, which is called affordance, and that means we're
telling the user what they need to do next, very clearly. So, congratulations!
You now know how to refactor your code and create your own custom
function. Good progress!